# Exercise 11
## Sockets

Reading: Chapter 11 of *Head First C*.

1) Read, compile and run `advice_server.c`, which is the example from
page 474 of *Head First C*.

2) In another window, use `telnet` to connect to your server, as on page 475.

3) Read, compile and run `wiki_client.c`, which is based on the
example on page 497.  Note: It looks like Wikipedia might not like the
format of this request any more, possible because it requires HTTPS.
If you get a version of this to work, let me know.  But we don't need it
to work for this exercise.

4) Using `wiki_client.c` as an example, write `advice_client.c`, a
client that connects to `advice_server` and prints a reply.

5) Read, compile and run `ikkp_server.c`, which is based on the
example on page 483.

6) In another window, use `telnet` to connect to `ikkp_server`, as on page 484.

7) Make a copy of `ikkp_server.c` called `ikkp_server_fork.c` and modify it
so it forks a new process for each
connection, as on page 487.

8) Confirm that you can have more than one connection to the server going at
the same time.

9) Make a copy of `ikkp_server.c` called `ikkp_server_thread.c` and modify it
so it creates a new thread for each
connection.

10) Confirm can have more than one connection to the server going at
the same time.

11) Modify `say` so it deliberately causes a segmentation fault.  Confirm that
when you run `ikkp_server_fork.c`, the child process can die without taking
down the server.  Confirm that when you run `ikkp_server_thread.c`, any thread
that crashes takes down the server.

12) Check your modified and new files in to the repo.
