# Exercise 10

## Pipes

In this directory you should find a file named `echo_starter.c` that contains
starter code for this exercise.  Read through it and make sure you understand
how it works.

Then make a copy called `echo.c` and modify it so the child process sends a message
back to the parent.  Remember that pipes are one-way, so you will have to create
a second pipe to allow the child to respond.

Check `echo.c` in to your repository.


## Signal handlers

Before we get to the second part of exercise, I want to clear up a possible area of
confusion: signal handlers are similar to interrupt handlers, but with
a few important differences.

* Signal handlers are application-level code.  Interrupt handlers are
kernel-level code.

* Handling a signal involves a break in the usual flow of execution,
but it does not involve switching from user code to kernel code.

* You can think of a signal handler as if it runs in another thread.
You can call functions (as if you had your own stack), and you can
access the heap, static, and text segments.  But you need to be careful
about concurrent access to shared variables.

If you call a function, it might crash if it is not reentrant.  Or it
might do something funny like print:

```
    Knock, knock.
    Who's there?
    Interrupting cow.
    InterruOUTPUT FROM SIGNAL HANDLERpting cow who?
```

In one common pattern, the signal handler just sets a flag and
returns.  When the program resumes it (eventually) sees that the flag
is set and responds accordingly.

1) In this directory, read `signal_example.c`, then compile and run it.

2) Modify the program so that if the alarm goes off, you get to answer
one more question before it quits.  Hint: If the alarm goes off while `fgets`
is running, the signal handler will run, then `fgets` will return NULL.

3) Check your modified version of `signal_example.c` in to the repo.
