# Exercise 7

## Building a hash table. 

The goal of this exercise is to build an implementation of a hash table.

Reading: Chapter 7 of *Head First C* and [Appendix B of *Think
Python*](http://greenteapress.com/thinkpython2/html/thinkpython2022.html#sec255)


1) To get you started, there is a file called `hash.c` in this directory.
For the basic version of this exercise,
you should fill in the functions that say "FILL THIS IN!", and get the test
code working.

2) For the optional, more challenging version, you should make the
hash table keep track of the number of elements and resize itself when
necessary.

3) You also might want to read about hash functions and replace my
terrible hash functions with something that does a better job of
spreading out the keys.


In `hash.c` I've provided code that demonstrates an object-oriented
style in C.  I've also designed the interface for many of the
functions you need.  You just have to fill in the implementation.

The `Value` struct represents a value in a hashtable.  Values can be
ints or strings, so they are "polymorphic."  There are several ways to
implement polymorphic types in C.  For `Value`, I chose a struct that
contains a union and a Type field.

    typedef struct {
        enum Type {INT, STRING} type;
        union {
            int i;
            char *s;
        };
    } Value;

I provide two constructors, one for each Type.

    Value *make_int_value(int i) 
    {
        Value *value = (Value *) malloc (sizeof (Value));
        value->type = INT;
        value->i = i;
        return value;
    }

    Value *make_string_value(char *s) 
    {
        Value *value = (Value *) malloc (sizeof (Value));
        value->type = STRING;
        value->s = s;
        return value;
    }

A drawback of this implementation is that code that works with `Value`
gets cluttered with `if` and `switch` statements.  For example:

    void print_value (Value *value) 
    {
        if (value == NULL) {
            printf("%p", value);
            return;
        }
        switch (value->type) {
        case INT:
            printf("%d", value->i);
            break;
        case STRING:
            printf("%s", value->s);
            break;
        }
    }


An alternative is for the object to carry with it pointers to the
functions that operate on it.  That's what I did for `Hashable`, which
represents the keys in the hash table:

    typedef struct {
        void *key;
        int (*hash) (void *);
        int (*equal) (void *, void *);
    } Hashable;

The key can be a pointer to any type.  `hash` and `equal` are pointers to
functions.  The syntax for function pointers is fairly awful, but you
get used to it.

Now to hash a `Hashable`, you just invoke its hash function on it:

    int hash_hashable(Hashable *hashable)
    {
        return hashable->hash(hashable->key);
    }

When you make a `Hashable`, you have to provide pointers to appropriate
functions:

    Hashable *make_hashable_string (char *s)
    {
        return make_hashable((void *) s, hash_string, equal_string);
    }

In `hash.c`, I provide `hash_int` and `hash_string`.  You have to fill
in `equal_int` and `equal_string`.

This implementation, where objects carry around pointers to their
methods, provides semantics similar to JavaScript objects.  The
obvious disadvantage of this implementation is that all objects with
the same type contains pointers to the same set of methods.  So you
can save space by moving those pointers into a separate object ---
let's call it a "class" --- and giving each instance a pointer to its
class.
