# Exercise 2
## Pointers


1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?

I think it is trying to print out each value in the array on a separate line. Right now the output should be:
42
42
42
42
42

2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?

stack.c: In function ‘foo’:
stack.c:22:5: warning: function returns address of local variable [-Wreturn-local-addr]
     return array;
     ^

This means that the function is returning the address of a local variable, so it is returning the address of a variable that only exists inside of the function. The array that is created in foo is not the same as the array created in bar or main.

3.  Run it.  What happens?  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.

0
0
-948347264
32629
-948259488


4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?

Same compile error, but when it is run it prints:

0x7fffc9fc4db0
0x7fffc9fc4db0
0
1
2
3
4


5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


## Chapter 2


### Processes

1) Give a real-world example of virtualization (ideally not one of the ones in the book).
When I eat, I know that food is being turned into energy, but I have no idea what the speicifc processes are.

2) What is the difference between a program and a process?
A process is a software object that represents a running program and a program ?????????

3) What is the primary purpose of the process abstraction?  What illusion does the process abstraction create?
THe primary purpose of abstraction is so that users can interact with complex systems without knowing all of the details. This abstraction creates the illusion that there are a ton of CPUs and that the network that a machine is on is all of the networks.

4) What is the kernel?
The kernel is the part of the operating system that creates most of the core capabilities, like threading.

5) What is a daemon?
A daemon is a process that runs in the background and provides operating system services.
