# Exercise 4

### Separate compilation

Writing Makefiles and organizing code into separate modules with
header files is not rocket science, but it is important for large
projects, and it facilitates code reuse.

This exercise gives you a
chance to practice on one of my programs, which has three benefits: (1)
you don't have to think about how the code works, you just have to
reorganize, (2) refactoring legacy code like this is something you
might need to do some day, and (3) you can make fun of the generally poor
quality of the code I wrote in grad school.

Reading: Chapter 4 of Head First C.

1) `trout` is a simplified version of `traceroute` that I wrote years
ago as part of a [research
project](http://allendowney.com/research/clink/).  As such, it is
research-grade software, which is to say that it is poorly engineered
and documented.  Download and unpack
[trout.tgz](http://allendowney.com/research/trout/trout.tar.gz), then
use the `Makefile` to compile it.  

2) Fix any errors you find.  This code compiled 20 years ago in my
development environment, but that doesn't mean it will compile now
in yours.  If you can get the code actually working, that's ideal;
otherwise just patch it enough to compile.

3) There are several useful functions in `trout.c`, but because they
are in the same file as `main()`, they would be hard to reuse.  Pull
`main()` into a new file called `main.c` and recompile.  You will have
to add some declarations to `trout.h`.

4) Split `trout.h` into two files, `trout.h` and `util.h`, so that each
header file declares the interface of the corresponding module.

5) Modify `Makefile` to do separate compilation of each module, as required.

6) Make the whole program compile cleanly with the `-Wall` flag.

### Unit testing

1) In this directory, you should find the following files:

* `minunit.h`: A header file with macros for MinUnit, a minimal framework for unit testing.
* `endswith.c`: An implementation of the `endswith` function.
* `endswith.h`: Header file declaring the `endswith` function.
* `test_endswith.c`: Code using MinUnit to test `endswith`.

Read through these files and make sure you understand them.  You can [read about MinUnit here](http://www.jera.com/techinfo/jtns/jtn002.html).

2) Create a file named `test_util.c` that uses MinUnit to test at least one function in `util.c`.

3) Check your new and modified files into the repo.
